---
category: shaman_transcript
id: 2023_4_21_intention_part_01
document_id: 2023_4_21_intention
title: "Intention"
topic: "Intention"
date: 2023-04-21
language: en
part: 1/4
duration_minutes: "37.407"
source_path: "/Users/ksoiss/Library/Mobile Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/Documents/Method/podcast/transcripts/2023_4_21_-_Intention.txt"
---

# Intention

## Часть 1 из 4

## Транскрипт
Okay. I think what we're gonna do now is first of all, I'll switch to English because I think we're gonna have it in English for this particular talk, and we're gonna see perhaps we're gonna translate it back into Russian. We shall see. Yeah. So, like, we started in English for just for just to try how it works. So, yeah, welcome, everyone. So we're gonna have a topic on intentions and intentionality with regards to the ceremonial work and ceremonial process. And it is quite important for a number of reasons and specifically, once we are dealing with the ceremony of the traditional style brought into our western world, and it seems for us it's important to understand how to prepare and what to do, what not to do. So there are a couple of practical issues with that. And, definitely, we can easily observe that depending on the mindset and depending on our we definitely have might have a very different outcome over a ceremonial process. And, yeah, I think it makes sense to dig a little bit deeper into what we are dealing with here. So what intention really is and why it is important and how to approach it. So first of all, we can definitely observe that ceremony and ceremonial experience is not a predefined experience. It's not consumable. It's not bill. It's not a ready made experience for us to experience. It's definitely something else. Why it doesn't matter? Because it's not a predefined experience. We definitely have some agency within the process, and we are definitely a collaborator. And while when we are participating, we become component within a larger within a broader system. And it definitely makes sense for us to understand our agency, what is our way to influence things within the ceremony. And there are agendas If you consider a ceremony at conversation and dialogue or a journey and inquiry is a collaborative experience, and which means that every party has their own agenda. There is always an agenda of medicine. There is always an agenda of the guide. And we better have our own agenda when coming into the process which then easily becomes confronting or collaborative or whatever it becomes. So what is the agenda of medicine? We might have different opinions about it, but depending on the style and depending on the approach we're pursuing, if you come to someone who has an attitude of helping and healing and supporting, medicine collaborates with that and becomes a evolutionary agent of our development. And this development goes through various stages. In some stages, we need to clean up stuff. In some others, we need to connect to something else. In some others, we need to change the way we perceive things, whatever is needed in our evolutionary path. And we definitely have the guy who's got as well their own agenda, and it might be collaborative with the medicine. It might be something else, and we could better check for ourselves what we see and whether we feel a light or not. As for us, the question is what can we come with into the ceremonial process? And speaking of that, consider that evolutionary process means evolution towards something. So we might have a particular spot in our life that we start with, and they might be cautious about that. But then there are always different pathways how we can evolve or where we can where we can see ourselves as within some time once we once we consider this process of evolution. There might be different options. I mean, there is not one single destination point towards which we are bursting this process. And as per Buddha's teaching, there there are multiple worlds we can symbolically end up being in, and we are in different worlds from the same perspective. So we might end up in the worlds of the bliss and it's not, by the way, the most beneficial experience to land there because everything that has its beginning has its end, or there might be worlds of hatred and suffering, or there might be worlds of our human experience. And each of these worlds, as per Buddhist teaching, as per dharma teaching, is connected to particular attachment to some forms and some patterns. And by working our path towards or from a particular spot, we use our developer and unleash our connection, our attachment to a particular type of forms and types of patterns. So in that meaning in that meaning, once we are dealing with an evolutionary agent, which Ayahuasca definitely is, and as well as separate plants different are, their action is this day patterning, like, supporting our process of releasing the patterns or leaving new patterns. So in what sense does this deconstruction happen then? And that's the reason why we practice intentional approach this therapy because in order to design this the construction process, we need to understand what is our, you know, what is the direction our mind takes within this context, what patterns are to be deconstructed and what others have to stay and or be further developed. And this definitely depends upon our mindset, upon what we believe we need in our life and what we believe we definitely do not need anymore. It's not like leaving a room of someone who's got no agency. Because then I would come to the room and clean whatever. But once we deal with the ceremonial process, then there is the room of the mind of the person is where the person defines what is not trash and what is useful, what should stay there, what should not stay there. And by practicing a nonviolent approach in the ceremony, it means that there should be a particular mindset developed by the person who actually goes into the process. Okay. So far, so good. Okay. So from from the perspective of practicing intentional approach to ceremony, there are a couple of things which are sort of obvious, some others are not. So the obvious ones are well, it's a practical mindset. And setting up intention, it means be very practical. Meaning, very simple and down to earth with regards to where am I now? Like, what is my life situation regarding myself, regarding my resources, regarding my mental state, my energy state, whatever I would mean, other this. What are my relationships to others, to myself? How do I feel? Like, what's the process I'm going through? What's this stage of my life? Yeah. So it's very practical. No fancy stuff. No abstract concepts. The other would be openness and openness intention of being oh, it's not an intention of being open, but it's rather being open about thinking about things, saying, okay. I don't know much, but I'm eager to learn. Even if I think I know about something, then there might be something that I do not know. There might be further facets I would love to explore, open up. And that means a lot because in some respect, by going through a traumatic experience within our lifetime, we definitely create mechanisms. Our psyche creates mechanisms that guard the consistency and safety of our existence by closing the traces or sort of hiding the traces of the trauma so that we do not really traumatize ourselves. If it could not deal with that, so we're have it, like, sort of sealed in a particular way. And it sort of calcifies on many levels. It can be a somatic process, can be a mental process. And when we are coming to the moment, when we are ready to unwind that, it requires us to at least allow ourselves on the mind level to open up towards the healing process, towards the communication process, whatever it is. So the is the sec the third component there, which means that it's a resolution that I got to deal with my stuff. And I won't really make a force to conceal it from myself that I'm gonna face it, and I won't turn away. That's important too because it's really easy to fool others, but we definitely are becoming very good at fooling others once we are good once we are becoming good at fooling ourselves. And the rest of many is a very spiritual bypass scenarios, specifically including sacred plants and medicines. So we better resolve this from the very beginning by being honest and being real with ourselves, which is not really a onetime event, but rather a resolution and commitment to practice it. Because it's really not the case for many of us, including myself, that I decide to be completely open open and honest with myself, and then I am immediately like that. It it is a discipline in a sense. So we get back to square one. So in a sense, intention is not a magical wish list. So for many of us, an idea of how to set up an intention for ceremonial work boils down to an idea that, okay. I've got things I want, and I want this. I want that. I want health. I want money. I want good relationships. I want to get rid of bad memories. I and and, like, it becomes sort of a shopping list of things. And that is definitely a great path to disappointment because once we set up so many expectations about what medicine has to give us and we sort of buy it from the medicine, so it becomes a little bit, like, consumerist process that does not necessarily work. So first of all, it doesn't work because there is no such way as transactional perspective within the relationships of healing and inquiry. So, like, you cannot consider creating a shopping list of what you would encounter within a very open dialogue with your close friend. So you can start with something, of course, but it almost immediately gonna become something else rather than the shopping list of vicious. However, one must be must be very careful what one vicious for and list of what I wish to explore is definitely a healthy way to open up the patterns of one's mind. But money but it's it's important to take it with a grain of salt. Specifically, the ideas that I need this, I need that, usually come together with some constraints related to that. I need this and because I want to keep the moment intact, keep the beauty I am seeing in others unchanged, keep a good thing and release a bad thing. But in reality, we cannot keep anything unchanged. I mean, that we have it it is a process of constant change in growth and exploration. So in many respects, a good idea here would be to think of what is the most important thing right now in my life that I'm coming into the ceremonial process with. So what is the what is this within my state that makes me anxious about wanting things or not wanting things? What makes me angry? What makes me sad? So, like, taking this transactional pattern and being just one level deeper, looking into the insight is that sort of provoke this type of thing. It becomes a great gateway into the intention. And, definitely, an intention is not a romantic gate get away to abstract concepts of various sorts, whatever it might be. And it's very easy to come with an idea that, oh, well, I wish to feel absolute unconditional love. And it might so happen that one gets into the realm of perception of unconditional absolute love until one gets back home and has to face the same neighbors and the same those months' relatives that are specifically positioned by universe to prevent oneself from feeling unconditional love. And then it becomes a problem because there was such a blissful process of experiencing unconditional love within the ceremony. Now it's a dull and gray and sad reality, and that feels unfair sort of. And we want to get back to this blissful state. So it sort of creates a new pattern of escape. The whole purpose of ceremonial work in various traditions is to restore the connection to the real life. And instead of setting up an expectation of I wish to feel unconditional love, it definitely makes more sense to set up an expectation, set up an intention to see what makes me unable to experience unconditional love. So then it becomes sort of introspective, introverted. And once it becomes introverted, introspective, then our mind has definitely a great task to work on to go inside of myself to explore my deficiencies and limitations of my vision. And that's a great way to approach a ceremony because it's very real. It's somethin
