---
category: shaman_transcript
id: 2023_3_10_essence_of_a_ceremony_part_03
document_id: 2023_3_10_essence_of_a_ceremony
title: "Essence of a Ceremony"
topic: "Essence of a Ceremony"
date: 2023-03-10
language: en
part: 3/6
duration_minutes: "49.78"
source_path: "/Users/ksoiss/Library/Mobile Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/Documents/Method/podcast/transcripts/2023_3_10_-_Essence_of_a_Ceremony.txt"
---

# Essence of a Ceremony

## Часть 3 из 6

## Транскрипт
ionally defined construction construct context and concept around the whole process here. Yet another word that comes to my mind is celebration, and celebration here means something. Because at the end of the day, if we count for celebration of life by observing the abundance of connection with the life itself, then we are certainly on the right track to relax a bit more and learn a bit more. It really helps us to learn more if we smile. So celebration is the word, another way to explore that. All in all, I'd be happy to answer your questions. If you have any, go on. If if something remained unclear, whatever, and just the floor is yours, please jump in. Nothing. Okay. I'm good with that as well. No problem. Good. Okay. So here it is. I deliberately didn't mention specific traditions of working with or, like, with any other psychoactive plans because, really, there is not much difference. There is not much difference. Whether we are exploring the space of deep trans abused by whatever substance or whether we are exploring the space of conversation or whatever, we are dealing with roughly the same structures. It might be just, like, more overwhelming for the census, less overwhelming for the census, but the container is pretty much the same. I have a I have a question. Well, first of all, thank you so much. Like, the I was sitting and kind of trying to process the the information you just shared. That's probably everybody else doing the same. It's like, they digesting the nuggets of information. Thank you. So kind of what I heard from what you talked about that what I hear that the cyclical aspect of the work working having them meetings ceremonies. And they tied up with their what's happening in human life, but also cycles of nature. Did I hear you correctly? Because I'm not actually familiar if traditionally, with the planned ceremonies, where they're done in conjunction with their kind of nature cycles, like, of seasons, harvesting, and everything else? Not really? Yes. Yes. They were, but Yes. Yes. The the the but not I mean, not always, but they were I mean, what you you would encounter the same. Like and, again, say you go to a Peruvian village somewhere in aboriginal setting, and they would have, say, celebration, like, seasonal celebration drinking chicha. They're drinking fermented, like, local fermented beer. That's a different plant. Okay? So that's a different thing, but it creates a state of trance. They're being drunk, but in a very particular fashion, they have music, they're gonna be dancing, they're gonna be chanting songs, and then they're gonna have kids performing whatever. And that's very traditional, and it's very cyclical. It sets up a very common seats, like, sets up a common state for people to they have a joint experience of commissions. And, like, it can be very specific to write off. Of course, like, many respects, it would be done like that. But it's all every see, like, right of passage for a particular member of community is a communal event. It's like a thing for for the for the whole village. So in that sense, external causes or external cycles cycles, they are all, like, manifestations of and this symbolic is pretty much propitiating, like, permeating, pretty much all traditional cultural settings. Like, you would see that it really falls into a particular spot within this huge cycle cycle of existence, which was sort of rediscovered by Campbell and his hero journey. And whoever was looking into fairy tales would be easily observing observing. Well, that's pretty much what the traditional mindset will be the life in general. The yeah. So so you're right. And if nobody else has a question, then two more questions running on what you just said. I'm aware of their rights of passages for males in the communities because they kind of that's at least what crossed my path more often when I was when I when I would be reading or about the traditional or traditions rather and the tribal living. What about females? Because I don't recall hearing or reading about the females rite of passages with some in the ceremonial settings. Are you familiar with that, or do you have Of course. So okay. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's not different. Well, it's it's it's really not different whatsoever. So the rites of passage are not really about just getting going into adulthood. It's all it's about passage. Well, it's like, we usually call the rite of passage all the events which are traditionally related to a particular phase shift, like birth, like getting adult, like marriage, like pregnancy, like giving birth, like dying. And then the difference between so, like, women would have their specific rights of passage rights of passage related to giving birth. That's obvious. Like, because there is this process of postpartum specifically and then, like, dealing with that, which is not male. And, like, all components to that, women would have specific ratios related to ceremonial cleanliness, and I couldn't go into that. That's not really the rite of passage, but the rite of passage of getting to adulthood for a woman as so profound as menarche, like, the first the first moon. And this would be it. I mean, rite of the first moon is pretty much in all traditions. You would encounter that. And you can see it, like, in even in contemporary life in Judaism, there is bar mitzvah and bat mitzvah. So bat mitzvah. That's it. That's the right of passage. In the way, it has survived through the Jewish Jewish community. For for for for women, it would be bat mitzvah. That's it. And it's pretty much all around. Now I think that the the this service, Campbell did a little bit. The the idea of hero journey is that, like, he used the word hero. And then the idea of hero is usually, like, hero with the sword, going to the castle, like, fighting fighting the dragon, all that. It's sort of masculine in a sense, like, the the way it's sort of imprinted in the mass consciousness. But I don't think he meant that, frankly. And I think it's it is the way we have learned how to interpret that. But, I mean, there are all possible tons of fairy tales where women would be the hero figure and not specifically a male archetype or always male archetype. It just happens so that we have this heritage of patriarchal culture. And this all sort of think about, okay. Here. Okay. So but, like, look for running with wolves. I think this is the English name for them. Look for running with wolves. I mean, you've got all the archetypes for for a female rite of passage there, just, like, compressed, condensed, and, like and that was sort of a reaction to Campbell's hero's journey. That was it. Like so I don't see much difference. I mean, there is difference technically because, like, events are different. And but but but in terms of significance, nothing nothing is different here. One more, unless unless other people have questions. Don't want to Mhmm. Hope the the the conversation. Then, the question is the fairy tales, unabridged, not sanitized, not Disney version of fairy tales. Mhmm. What parts do they play in their ceremonial settings? And are they going in conjunction? Are they kind of not visual representation of the journeys we are taking? Or are there, like, kind of oral guidelines, so to speak, or shared experiences from the past? Great great question. Let let let me make a A separate? Yes. A separate a separate episode on this one. Yeah. It's gonna take a while to explain. Good? So I love the question. I mean, it warrants a whole episode. So cool. Okay. So that's it, folks. Unless you've got any particular burning questions, then I think we're good. Yeah? Yeah. Cool. Thank you so much, and I hope you enjoyed it. And, yeah, let's assume we're gonna have a great podcast episode made with this. Cool. Thank you. Have a good one. So much. Thank you. You too. Thank you. Bye bye. Bye bye.
