---
category: shaman_transcript
id: 2023_5_5_fear_axiety_part_02
document_id: 2023_5_5_fear_axiety
title: "Fear & Axiety"
topic: "Fear & Axiety"
date: 2023-05-05
language: en
part: 2/6
duration_minutes: "48.463"
source_path: "/Users/ksoiss/Library/Mobile Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/Documents/Method/podcast/transcripts/2023_5_5_-_Fear_Axiety.txt"
---

# Fear & Axiety

## Часть 2 из 6

## Транскрипт
y. There is a surfacial image of what we are dealing with. An example of my own experience, so I had once a very particular dream work with some of my hidden fears, and I've been seeing a very vivid dream, a very lucid dream in suburbs of Moscow where most of my my childhood was spent seeing several figures coming to the fence and and understanding that these are these. And they were very fearsome, like, very fearsome, and they were ugly. And that was the reason why they were fearsome. So, like, I saw very ugly figures coming to me. And at that moment at that moment, I vividly remember having a very particular choice of this and pushing them away or staying in the presence of these ugly figures. And it was a very blissful moment of allowing the allowing myself to stand in front of them doing nothing, not pushing them away, not inviting them to come, but just waiting there. And just by the virtue of standing and doing nothing and allowing myself the moment of observation, the faces of these, spirits, as I saw them in my dream work, started to shift, started to change. And in rapid sequence, it showed up being not as fearful as I thought they were before. So at some moment, they started being informative. They started to be communicative. And that was basically the work that happened at that very moment. That was it was a very short work. And after that, I felt in the hidden fears related to this realm of dead spirits. But what it told me and then what what it taught me was that once we allow ourselves to just observe the mask of fear, it opens up an information or communication channel so that we can actually look into that further. And once we are dealing with fears, usually, we have this chain of fears. So we can go through this chain one by one saying, okay. I fear this and that. What if this happens, really? So, okay, this already happens. Say, imagine I this already happened. Do I fear anything else? What is the bigger fear behind that and behind that and behind that? In psychology, as well as ceremonial work, we rapidly understand that, by following this chain of fears, which seems to be sort of counterintuitive at once. But by following this chain of fears, we end up facing the existential fears. And there are not many. There are not many for all of us. The essential fear of losing the body once we are dying, like that everything gonna discontinue, and the external essential fear of losing the mind to go crazy, to have issues with that. We do not have issue have issues with being crazy. Our our close ones have issues with us that we are going crazy. Yes. So there are so many things related to that guilt and shame and our reduced worldview. Existential fears usually deal with this very basic patterns of our thoughts that either come from early childhood, the way we were taught to be ashamed of something or are coming to our world world view of us being just material bodies and nothing else, again, the way we were taught that we are. And these preconditions are pretty much pretty much hardwired throughout our early education and upbringing. So by following this chain of fears, we quite often get this particular set of patterns prerecorded in our system. So what happens there is that admitting the observer to exist, allowing the observer to exist, As in my dream work, happen to be admitting the my own personality to be able to stand still and not be affected by whatever happens because there is nothing that can affect the observer in many respects. Observer is, by definition, the level of personality that does not actually change by whatever is being observed. Yeah. A particular layer of existence that is always still and just reflecting what comes, to the mind. This becomes a healing process in itself. And finally, what we encounter here is that, there is a very particular condition of time that pops up. So if you consider fears or anxieties, they usually tend to be a particular type of fixation of mind either within past or within future. Now common sense tells us that there is no such thing as fixed past or fixed future. There are memories of past, and there are expectations of future. Both of memories and expectations happen in present moment. Otherwise, we wouldn't be able to recognize them. And they are embodied in our physical system so that they become a constant reminder of what's happening. So in a sense, we're educating ourselves to stay in the present moment, recognizing this present moment rather than just saying, okay. Time is now. But really recognizing that I'm experiencing right now becomes another healing tool for that. And the actual work starts to happen before we actually go into the ceremony. So the intention based work before we jump into the ceremony is this seeding of of observer capacity, seeding of consciousness capacity to cut through the chain of stimulus and reaction, and seeding of our capacity to see behind the mask and sort of encounter our own brave part of personnel. So that says, okay. Whatever I gonna see, I gonna handle that because there is nothing that can harm me at that very moment. Obviously, requiring trust in the process and requiring this particular sense of calmness that can be called upon, that can be asked to emerge, and that can be encountered. So allowing ourselves to encounter this sense of calm calmness is what makes this work so powerful. So this happens even before we jump into the ceremony. And in a sense, ceremony starts from that very moment. The actual work with medicine is the disentanglement process of the pattern, depatterning of what has caused the fear or anxiety. And it can be purely ceremonial process, but as well, it can be a longer medicinal process once we are dealing with other plans or other practices that allow us to reintegrate this knowledge again and again and again, observing the chains of the chains of patterns to reemerge and allowing ourselves to put our consciousness back into the same process. So in very, very short, this is a basic tool set I wanted to explore a little bit, and I am very happy to discuss it with you. So what do you think? Do you have any experiences related to that? What does make sense for you? Have you deal dealt with that in your ceremonial processes and, like, just share your opinions? Let's talk. Mhmm. It's everyone's frozen with fear. I have a question maybe to start with. Yeah. Go on. Does it make a difference to know what brought fear or anxiety or not? Like, what was the source? Because sometimes I might have a feeling of, like, anxiety or, like, a fear, but it's very unclear what's what's the source and what brought it in. And it makes it, at least for myself, kinda hard to work with it because I I don't know what is what is this exactly. Yeah. That's a good question. Yeah. Definitely makes a difference. And, usually, once we have from my perspective, once we have a good understanding of what was the initial traumatic event, they've got a way more capacity to deal with that. Because then we've got sort of already the process started of opening up the memory, and it means that our consciousness is already there to deal with the initial condition. However, usually, we do start with a flurry, like, a range of emotions and the range of fears without even knowing what has caused that. And there are some events, traumatic events that are quite known to us. They happened not not long not a long time ago. There are some others that are pretty much concealed. They were too strong, like, say, experiences of sexual abuse or violence and our psyche does its best to conceal it, and the memory can be quite concealed, which, again, is important to understand once we are dealing with that from a practitioner's perspective because we need to understand that we might be facing a particular trauma that's gonna be encountered, and we might need to work with a very dramatic outburst of emotions related to that. So that's quite important. And in some cases, we will not find traces of that within our own lifetime. And the reason might be that, say, a particular experience might have been caused by what has happened very early before our memories were formed properly throughout the process of birth, for example. Again, depending on the world your world to you, we might admit that there are some experiences that did not happen in within the lifetime whatsoever. So if you come to the realization of the origin of fear, then good for you. However, the existential fears, by definition, are coming from something deeper, you know, from the deeper understanding of the reality of dying and being born and then dying at some point of time. And there is a very powerful part of our self that does not want to die. And that's quite obvious. I mean, that's the whole purpose of self as a construct to protect us from having the discontinuity in our experiences. Technically, we are dying every single moment, and we are born again every single moment. If you try not to breathe for fifteen minutes, you're you're gone. You know? So we are that far from being dead, but we do not think about that because there is this protective cell. And this protective cell definitely makes its best not to be observed because it gonna create a much bigger challenge for us how to deal with that. And, usually, fears boil down to that. Great. Thank you. I have a question. Yay. Yeah. Hi. So one question is, obviously, the fear of not being able to come back while you were in a deep experience in the ceremony. It's definitely something that arise with me multiple times. And another question that I have is, well, maybe it relates to it, is that yeah. It's like it seemed like there's a certain kind of a it's almost like a react new threat that I leave in the ceremony that kinda ties me back to con consensus reality as you call it. You know? So is it useful or not? And and, like, what what just like, in general, what's your insights about that? Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Starting for with the first one. Well, that's interesting, really. If you are really honest with yourself, then if I am very honest with myself and thinking about what happens with me once I'm diving into the ceremonial process and who is coming back, I most certainly recognize that the person that is coming back is not the same person as jumped into the process. So there is no think of there is no such thing as returning home in the same condition as I jumped into that. So and that's, like, that that's, like, quite obvious from intellectual perspective, but it's quite unobvious from existential perception, so to say. So in in many respects, the idea of going into the into the journey and returning back is fearful just because like, in the same respect as any rite of passage is producing fear. It's very logical to fear the right of passage. It's very logical because one definitely knows that the process of maturing aka is right of passage, is about not coming back. It's definitely about not coming back. It's about that something else gonna come back, someone else gonna come back. And that's why the experience of dying within the ceremony is very important. Medicine does its best to make it very specific, very concrete experience of this is what gonna die, and this is you. You gonna die for sure, like, 100%. And many of us have experienced that resisting this resisting this being swallowed by the giant anaconda and not viewing this. And it's really hard to be voluntarily swallowed by the anaconda Because then what's gonna be then? Like, how are gonna be that? And myself tell tells me, well, this is the only thing I don't wanna know I don't wanna do. But why we are going through this. Right? Is another thing. It means that there is something else beyond this protective self that pushes us towards that. There is some evolutionary force. There is some life force. And, you know, like, the actual ceremonial processes re can be rendered as reconnecting to this life forc
