---
category: shaman_transcript
id: 2023_3_10_essence_of_a_ceremony_part_02
document_id: 2023_3_10_essence_of_a_ceremony
title: "Essence of a Ceremony"
topic: "Essence of a Ceremony"
date: 2023-03-10
language: en
part: 2/6
duration_minutes: "49.78"
source_path: "/Users/ksoiss/Library/Mobile Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/Documents/Method/podcast/transcripts/2023_3_10_-_Essence_of_a_Ceremony.txt"
---

# Essence of a Ceremony

## Часть 2 из 6

## Транскрипт
. But yet there is one big difference. So we've lost a very particular thing, which is this rhythmical component that shows how to run our ceremonies. So we don't know it anymore. So we don't have this idea that at harvest, we should do this or that. We have an idea that at Halloween, we have to go buy a pumpkins in a pumpkin patch and, like, do whatever whatever is suggested by this particular holiday, but it's not really the same because they don't really know the symbolic self. Hello? And why is it that important? Like, beyond just particular expression of fear and, like, enjoying the shopping frenzy related to whatever happens around the same date. So somehow we have forgotten this in in our individual situation, we have forgotten this critical component, and we don't have it from the outset, which is what actually creates most of the anxieties we are facing because, like, the whole thing about midlife crisis or whatever crisis related to a particular phase of the life, they are not really about mental issue. They are more about this longing for moving through the like, completing one phase of the life and the qualitative way and then opening up the next one and learn how to do that because there is no widespread knowledge like we've been taught how to do that. So this is what actually calls for ceremony, And this is what actually happens to most of us once we approach that. So we become interested, and the the the reason we become interested is because we sort of feel this longing for this calling for completion of something and the beginning of something else. And yet we don't have specific knowledge what, you know, what to do with that. Once again, not widespread. Linear concept of time pretty much destroys any rhythmical notion of what can happen if we approach life in a cyclical rhythmical fashion. So in that sense, ceremonies is what we have to choose for us to happen. And in that sense, we are better off if we understand specifically what means we have this symbolic but direct action in our lives through the lens of completing one phase and opening another one related to the life in general, which is not easy to do. We don't have that much knowledge. And in that sense, most of the cases I have experienced is that usually become either there's a very specific particular reason that we've got some issues, and it means that this challenge of growing up has manifested already in the way that we can't really ignore it anymore. So we become sick or we've got really big issues in communication with someone or in the relationships or emotional or mental or whatever. We feel absence of life and or or we feel absence of something important. So we feel this sort of deficit, like, anxiety about losing something. We don't know anymore what we have lost, but we know we have lost that or anticipation of something to come. We don't know yet what it is that should come, but it is definitely there. Either we've got this particular notion or we've got a very loose and a foggy idea that we just needed. Like, we are being called by medicine or we just heard about it and we wish to come, so and so on. What really helps us in that sense is that once we learn that, okay. So we've got this particular sense of belonging that we needed in our life. It really helps us if you think about a sermon itself, a session workshop as a discovery of critical component in our life. This is the most solid piece of knowledge we actually are looking for in this sense, what it means to be being within this rhythmical patterns of the universe, of ourselves so far in our life. Because once we learn about that, once we allow ourselves to discover that, then at least we have less anxiety. And then there is one problem less. And instead of anxiety, we develop interest, and it really helps us to be more balanced and which is perhaps what we are looking for, to be more balanced in our life, to live our life to the fullest. How would we approach a ceremony from this perspective? What should we be looking for? And there are many good guys and facilitators and processes, and we have to navigate somehow how to find the right one or what what is the right thing. And now a good thing is there there is no right thing or wrong thing. There are different experiences. Some of them might be very blissful. Some others might be very traumatic, but it's not really ready made product on the shelf. So it's not a product. It's a process and then process which is self induced, and we definitely deal with the so for not knowing who we are. So, like, any triggering process would definitely reveal something. And then once it reveals, we never know in advance whether we actually wanna learn who we are. So we should be aware of that. It makes sense. But yet, still a couple of things about the ceremonial process that one you usually and that's very important. Aeter means sense of purpose, why it is being done in the way it is being done, ways to transcend the, the boundaries and ways to transcend the boundaries. And, like, speaking of purpose, there are many ways to render that. And in some cases, we will say it's healing, and then we should ask ourselves, is healing the right concept for this? Is it the right word? It might be. It might be not depending on what we call health. Healing, they are all nice words, but in many respects, we should first ask ourselves, what is the idea of my human existence? And, therefore, what's the idea of health? What means health to me? Mean does it mean I am mechanistically repairing my body and my and my as if I was a robot or reprogramming myself as if I was a computer programmer. Can you hear me well? No? Yes? Now better. Good. No. But you were breaking up a little bit before. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So one thing is Once we are thinking about container, we should figure out what is the purpose of process which is happening there from the participants' perspective. And because they are just words The more the deeper understanding is of what is happening to our state, what is the self image of my human existence. And in that sense, healing is related to that. So if I don't know my human existence, the core of my human existence, then how should I know that I am getting into balance or off balance? So I definitely know about suffering. So I'm suffering. But do I know about not suffering? That's a good question. So as for me, the best type of container for a ceremony has always a discovery component in it, has always the con component of inquiry and willingness and readiness to try to go a bit beyond the usual patterns of mind about what I am. And as well, trust that there is a natural state that can be somehow connected to it. I can connect to somehow somehow to a natural state of myself. So with these two ideas in mind, it really helps to build a healthy purpose for the container ceremony. And as for flow, it's important that we've got a form, and form is important. Form is what keeps this balance between cows and order, and we've got both. So you've got both stillness and dynamics, and the form is important here. You've got issues hearing me? Okay. Got it. Well, the the other thing is the medicine itself, and ceremonial medicine is very important as a counterpart, not as chemical agent. Because you might easily imagine a very powerful health without any chemical agents whatsoever just through a breath work or meditation or whatever. So it's not about that. It's not about tripping out. Yet in all components, in in all ceremonies, there will be always this this participating nonparticipant or participating agent or participating being that is beyond any of those who is present. Yeah. So in in in in the ceremonies of sacred plants, it is usually the spirit of sacred plant. We as we usually think about that, but it's not obviously just this. Yeah. It can be it can be something else. But what is important for us is to see that there is this unifying living being behind the concept of participation. So there is something bigger. Life itself represented in a particular fashion, represented through the lens of of the supporting circle or the environment we are sitting in or the central principle of what is happening here or the process which is being held. And the combination of container and this unifying principle or agent is very important. And here, the question is how we perceive this connection to a living being or to life in general sense. And the more we can investigate that, the easier it is for us to connect to the to the medicine in sacroiliac ceremony. Very importantly, the role of tradition is to set up this relationship of trust and direction. So we are in a much worse shape than we were couple of hundred years back because we don't have the tradition to teach us in the same manner as it was told centuries back. But we've got a very inquisitive mind, And once we allow ourselves to learn, then it really helps us to develop the understanding of what it means to connect. Because tradition was about connecting. So we can learn it from very moment on from from from very early moment on, and we've got this capacity. And, actually, we're very capable to do that. We just need to develop interest. So then once you've got interest, then we can learn. Now guide is important, but what is important about guide or facilitator of ceremony, it's very important that there is no personal agenda, like, secular personal agenda behind what's going on within the guide and specifically no power games related to that. Because then we really can dive deeper and be more vulnerable in the process. Then doesn't mean that guide has no agenda whatsoever. That would be wrong to assume. There should be an agenda, but the agenda should be related to ceremony. And then the question would be, what is the understanding of the process that the guy has in order to be able to run it within the form and flow, but yet not having his personal or her personal agenda? So one should investigate that as much as one should investigate whatever related to to a personal transformation path because it is just related to safety and boundaries. And, I mean, it's healthy to learn about that stuff. And finally, expectations around the ceremonial process are quite are quite a factor of how we gonna go through the process here. And in many respects, one can really sit in with the idea that there will be something big happening to me suffering of not seeing the changes and being very dense just enough to not be able to see the changes that are actually happening, and that's quite common. So I would say the usual reason here is ignorance as as men as with many other situations of life. And, definitely, there is no tradition to teach us. That's the the the other problem here. But we definitely come with expectations, and expectations are good. I mean, they're sort of helping us to shape the or forecast the life somehow or, like, reduce uncertainties. But we definitely can help ourselves not being anxious or neurotic about of what ceremony has to do. And we come for miracles. Now the real miracle is our exploration of ourselves. This is the real miracle, and our encounter with ourselves is the biggest miracle here. And if you come for this, then this is gonna happen. If you come for a magical resolution of outer world problems, then this is most probably not going to happen. And the real inquiry starts from ourselves asking ourselves where am I and what is happening to my life right now. So by being a little bit more honest, it sort of helps shape the process more naturally and getting less neurotic reactions into the process. Altogether, here's the framework. Here's the framework how to approach a ceremony. And as I said, you don't need to call it like that. And I prefer the word workshop or I prefer the word session. Because, again, it sort of allows us to think more about learning and exploration using more usual words rather than putting a very tradit
