---
category: shaman_transcript
id: 2023_10_16_coming_to_a_ceremony_part_01
document_id: 2023_10_16_coming_to_a_ceremony
title: "coming to a ceremony"
topic: "coming to a ceremony"
date: 2023-10-16
language: en
part: 1/4
duration_minutes: "34.758"
source_path: "/Users/ksoiss/Library/Mobile Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/Documents/Method/podcast/transcripts/2023_10_16_-_coming_to_a_ceremony.txt"
---

# coming to a ceremony

## Часть 1 из 4

## Транскрипт
Okay. We're gonna start now. So I would like to talk today within our podcast about coming to a ceremony, coming to a planned ceremony in more specific in more specific details. First of all, what are the reasons for us to come for a ceremony? And, well, usually, we heard something about the medicine. We learned something about the plant medicine. We are feeling that it is something important for us and that it is calling if we have this attitude to be called for something, or it is something of benefit to those who are important for us so that we know that it helped them in some way or other, or we just heard couple of songs or chants over YouTube. On the other hand, we've got our own situation. We are realizing that we've got what we call usual suffering. We are confused in some ways. We are sick in some ways. We have some illnesses that we need to treat, and we cannot. We feel being being misled or burned out, lost in relationships. We experience loss of energy, or we experience the consequences of a particular trauma. So all all of those are legitimate reasons for us to think about, okay. I perhaps need that. And as well, we perhaps have some attitude towards that ceremony is, like, something else, something different, not the usual way we treat illnesses and confusions. We might look at this from this perspective and rarely even know what it actually is. So I'd love to discuss this a little bit. And considering that many of those who are present would be coming for a ceremonial journey, for a ceremonial workshop, it sort of answers most important things related to preparation. First of all, I need to say that feeling anxious about the medicine journey is completely okay. This is very much expected, and I will explain why. Now the reason there is a reason why we call the medicine workshop a ceremony. And it sort of positions it somewhat separately from a usual idea of psychedelic journey or an healing encounter. It is really a ceremony, and there are valid reasons why we better use this sport and understand it. First of all, contemporary Western mind is usually largely ignorant about what a ceremony is primarily because there are not many points of reference. I mean, in our regular Westerners' life, we don't usually encounter a ceremonial journey in the way that used to be widespread across most of the tribes and most of the cultures that existed in various civilizations that have populated our planet. Now there are not many that are left, but we still have this beneficial opportunity to learn from the traditions that keep the notion of healing ceremony, medicinal ceremony. And, it's perhaps better to explain what it is not to start off, and then it shapes what it is. So first of all, it's not a psychedelic journey type of vacation. It's not an a way to distract yourself from your usual life. Although, of course, we are dealing with an unusual process, meaning that it's trans driven. So we are definitely in a very particular state of mind. It's definitely what has capacity to induce visionary states and fast paced environment. So if anything, it's usually not boring. However, it can be boring. If we are dealing with the the sense of boredom, we might encounter that as well. But yet, we are not there for states. We are not there for illuminated heightened visionary states per se. If you are looking for visionary states, guess what? You go for Netflix, and that's gonna create a great opportunity for you to dream awake. Or you read a good book if you're in the mood, and that's definitely one of the most visionary experiences you can encounter by reading a text and creating images in your head where you have a good sleep and perhaps you have a much cheaper and faster opportunity to have a journey. You know? So medicinal ceremony is definitely not a psychedelic journey from this perspective. It can be dull. It can be uninteresting. It be even tiresome. You know? But it serves its own purpose. So it's definitely not a magical pill to cure something you encounter in your life. And we are, to some extent, used to use pills for all different things. Like, if you feel pain, we would take perhaps ibuprofen. Or if you feel nausea, we would take some pills to deal with that. And many of us know the antidepressants and their action or whatever else, and a medicinal ceremony, a medicinal process is not that. Because while we are taking a pill to cure something, we usually tend to come back to our regular patterns of thinking, of behaving, of acting. Occasionally, a particular substance gonna change that for a while, but traditional approach to what causes an sickness and illness is that it's pretty much interrelated, the action of mind and the action of body. So even though we might be trying to fix something, We are not an automaton. We are not a mechanism that can be fixed by putting a screwdriver here or changing the code there. A human experience is way more complex and intertwined. So from that perspective, we should not really approach it as a magical tool to deal with our stuff. As well, even though it's quite widespread in aboriginal cultures, we better shouldn't treat it as a as a pill to cure our spiritual or psychic or even circumstantial existence. It's not magic pill to make us more lucky or more happy in general sense. Although we might be luckier and happier after the journey, but, for a lasting result, we better look into ourselves. And this is where the real magic starts. Now it's not consciousness expansion. So if you are not here in the business of expanding consciousness, first of all, it's really a, like, a concept that consciousness can be expanded. I mean, that's a really weird starting point for many reasons. The thing that you've got a limited consciousness and that it has to be expanded in some way. And the other thing is that the only thing that we can actually expand by thinking that way is our ego. That is, if unhealthy, usually not really a good thing to expand. You know? So bloating our ego can only be helpful if it is a provocative process of popping it once it's bloated. So we better not do this. We better go into the process in a more open minded way, you know, not really putting a particular concept into the equation. Finally, it's not a celebration of a new age or a new era or transcendence or transformation. It's not a process of lifting us up from the regular world into something different, like a portal that takes us from here to there. I mean, it can feel that way, but all states are temporary, really. And whatever we experience throughout the medicinal journey is definitely a temporary thing. Our mind usually plays tricks with us. And if we are targeting ourselves towards leaving this unhappy place, leaving this place of suffering, we, sooner or later, gonna come back. And that doesn't really create less suffering after all. So keeping in mind that all states are temporary, it really helps us to understand that whatever we work on is ourselves. So a good attitude would be to treat a medicinal process as an encounter with oneself and with others and with something larger than our own own ego or persona. You might call it in all different ports, whatever you like. Let's call it life with a capital l. And let's call it healing. Like, let's call it the mother of our existence, whatever you like. But the idea that we are just a part of a larger whole, we are interconnected, really helps us understand that to absorb this idea and connect to it, we need to learn how to encounter oneself and others. The other way would be to treat as an event. Like, we are considering that we are not really working on fixing stuff in our lives, be it illness, be it relationships, be it circumstances. But rather, we are revisiting rearranging the way we relate to our circumstances, to our life, and to others. So we work on how we live our life, not on, what are the circumstances for life. Although, as an entry point, we, of course, start with observing the circumstances and learning what actually happens and trying to be honest. So being honest with oneself is very important. And being honest and being vulnerable is really easy in the in the ceremonial context because in a sense, stripping off the usual patterns isn't that complicated considering that you open to yourself rather than me rather than opening to others. And then connecting to the medicine and connecting to the field of healing allows oneself to open without being exposed to the same. So you're vulnerable and naked, but you are not threatened in any way. For that, one needs to develop trust towards the medicine and towards the journey and towards the facilitator. And, of course, this is perhaps the most important prerequisite for any work of this kind. Now it's very important to be prepared for compassionate attitude towards others because as a group, the healing work usually works better as it is a catalyst for compassionate attitude. And catalyzing compassionate attitude is an intentional process. So for that, we really need to keep ourselves open with regards to the existence of others and their peculiar situation, which is as peculiar as our own peculiar situation. In that sense, we are all human beings, but sitting in the same ceremony, we all share something. Not a story, but rather the intensity of work of inner work. And compassionate attitude is very important because then it translates into compassionate action. And once it translates into compassionate action, it becomes part of this larger knowledge and discipline of connection that we have started with. Now most importantly perhaps is to agree that old patterns of our mind and whatever comes next might and will cease if we intend to. That although there are habits, nothing is permanent and our habits are not permanent. If you have intention to work with that, hibiscus and patterns are gonna cease. And, specifically, this kind of medicine is very much about, rewiring the patterns once we have intention to do so. It's really hard to rewire patterns without a particular intention. And definitely not in the business we are in. In human business, we definitely point towards collaboration, meaning that intention of the participant is what drives the intention and action of the facilitator and of the medicine as well. Now, however, having said that, it's quite important to be prepared for the unexpected, and, our, usual idea of what actually causes, this suffering or that suffering might be very limited then unless we really dig deeper into that. And coming to that with an open mind and understanding that, okay. I don't know much about my own situation. Otherwise, I perhaps would be would have been able to resolve it by myself without any support. That really helps. A, it humbles us and our ego and which is never a bad idea. And, b, it makes ourselves a little bit more open, little by little, teaches us how to be more open and honest with ourselves once again. From this perspective, perhaps, the process of the ceremony can be described as ceremonial container. And I love this metaphor of ceremonial container even though even though it's strange word container. But then let's put it that way. Ceremonial container from a very practical perspective means that it has a beginning and has an end. And, you know, in Tibet, they have this word bardo, and bardo means temporary state or temporary process. Like, there is a bardo of death, and there is bardo of life, and there is a bardo of process between life and death. There is bardo of sleep. Now in our case, ceremony is as well a particular container, a particular temporary existence. And what it actually means is that it has a beginning and an end. We really start with something. We complete it with something. So we open it up, and we complete it. It has a particular process inside that opens ourselves in a very particular manner, creates a very different perception of our existence as compared to what w
