---
category: shaman_transcript
id: 2023_5_5_fear_axiety_part_01
document_id: 2023_5_5_fear_axiety
title: "Fear & Axiety"
topic: "Fear & Axiety"
date: 2023-05-05
language: en
part: 1/6
duration_minutes: "48.463"
source_path: "/Users/ksoiss/Library/Mobile Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/Documents/Method/podcast/transcripts/2023_5_5_-_Fear_Axiety.txt"
---

# Fear & Axiety

## Часть 1 из 6

## Транскрипт
No. Mhmm. And the. Okay. So for now, we're gonna have another talk within our beyond the plans environment and within the range of topics we are covering. So, usually, we are covering things that have some some relation to to to ceremonial life and either happening before we jump into the ceremony while we are working with our intentions or happen within the ceremonial experience itself or whatever is important for post processing for integration. Admittedly, the topic of fears and anxieties goes way beyond that. Like, we definitely we definitely encounter fears and anxieties in our everyday life, but, usually, this is what happens. Once we come to a ceremony, we definitely deal mostly with that. And I would say, like, eighty percent of those who are coming to a ceremony in some sort would experience the initial intent boiling down to hearing something or to having some sort of anxiety about something. And this is a really elusive beast if you consider what it is. And in many respects, it is a rather range of experiences, not just one particular fear or one particular anxiety. So it can range from stiffness, inability to express oneself because there is some anxiety that I will not be appreciated or I have some guilt or some shame related to that. It can be whatever memories that come up throughout the process of thinking, okay. I'm anxious because I used to be anxious about something. It might be a combination of fear of fears and anxiety. So I had a particular event in my past, and I still fear that this gonna happen again in future. It can be very mild. It can be as acute as a real panic attack going all the way down to the physiological perception of what a panic attack is. All the way down to asthmas or pains related specifically to stomach pains. Once we are thinking about anxieties, usually, people end up having gastritis or even ulcers related to that. So pretty much pretty much if you take the whole range of experiences related to fears and and anxieties, it sort of shows up on so many different levels. So what we can encounter here is that it it can be and usually is embodied. And for in many respects, we see it as a body response to a particular mental stimulus. It is represented in emotional realm so that we've got some particular emotions, and that's what what we usually call fear. So I fear something or I'm anxious about something. It's definitely emotional syndrome. And there is quite usually a mental pattern related to that. It cycles, and fears and anxieties usually tend to cycle. It bothers as a mental concept, and it happens on these three levels simultaneously, most probably, most often, more often than not. Before we jump into the the whole topic and think about what it really means to deal with fears and anxieties in ceremonial context, we definitely have to consider that we have to be careful with triggers because sometimes triggers are shocks. So it's something that was triggered by a particular shock that happened sometime sometimes ago and sort of created a condition for our system. And in some cases, we do remember this shock. In some others, it's suppressed enough that we cannot remember what it is. And if you take our worldview and make it wider than we usually do, then it can be a particular shock related to something we that we cannot and perhaps even technically cannot remember easily coming from some other whatever you call it, some other transpersonal experiences. So a whole range of things. Yeah? So let's try to be careful here understanding that we have to follow a very trauma informed approach. And once we consider, I have a fear, I have an anxiety, and I wish to deal with that in a ceremonial context that we have to be knowledgeable about that. We can actually encounter and we can have to process the remainder of a trauma that happened before. So we have to be ready for for that. And, actually, if you if you feel that we wish to work with that, that already means that there is a capacity to deal with that. Okay? But we need to be careful with who we come towards and what we are dealing with. And, yeah, do it really trust the practitioner who's gonna work with us in this regard so that we are safe enough. Again, safety is such a big word. There is no no safety whatsoever, and there is always this level of uncertainty we are dealing with. But, anyways, better be prepared. So what is a fear in very simple terms? And thinking about fear, once we fear something, we usually deal with our consciousness being sort of not really in the in the very present moment. So we fear something that already happened or we feel something we fear something that gonna happen perhaps. So from ceremonial perspective or from shamanic perspective, but as well from psychological perspective, we are dealing with some sort of detachment. If you allow to switch over the okay. I'm gonna mute you if you can do it yourself as well. So there is a sort of detachment happening on several levels. We can think about that as being detached from the persona that that has ex experienced that particular traumatic event. And in traditional understanding, there is a word for that called. Do you know what means is, again, a range of syndromes, but, like, can happen if a baby was dropped. And it is said traditionally that a particular part of soul experience is sort of detached from the actual experience, and we have to deal with that. And the baby might not have resources to do it. But in more general sense, this sister condition means that there is certain splitting of experience and concealing of part of experience through this traumatic event. So guidance within ceremonial context usually means reattaching and reintegrating this condition within the process of work. And while we're thinking about this detachment, it usually involves as well creation of particular memories. And memories is something that is embodied. So we never deal with memories that are not embodied. Say, a particular fear might create contraction around stomach. There are so many muscles around stomach, and there are some there are so many layers of connective tissue. So the traumatic shock creates this contraction. And because we do not have conscious conscious way to re reintegrate that and deal with our contraction relaxing it because it's really hard to understand how to relax your stomach muscles, then this memory might create a self reinforcing pattern of contracting once the same stimulus comes into the system. So in that sense, memory is always embodied. So if you our physiology keeps traces of this shock, and then to be able to deal with the shock and to reprocess the shock, we gonna need to figure out somehow how to see see beyond this particular contraction, observe that this particular issue that we are dealing with has relevance to the initial shock, and that's part of the work we are dealing with. So the mental and emotional patterns follow basically the same route. However, the sole reason that we are still dealing with this fear usually means that the the access to the initial trauma or to the the initial event is sort of concealed. That's why we are coming to a ceremony still dealing with the same fear. Yeah? Not much we can do through through merely psychological means unless we go into this embodied perception, unless we are dealing with the body that keeps track of what happened before. Ceremonial works, specifically work, usually opens up all levels of of our of our existence here by offering us access simultaneously to all three levels of body, energy, and mind. And through careful guidance, we are able to reintegrate all of them. In a sense, fear has to do something with past. So we're gonna come back to this later, but you can observe that working with fear is working with past. But past doesn't exist anymore. So from the perspective of our actual experience, we are dealing only with the present moment through which we are looking into this past. And because of the illusionary nature of past, we are seeing just the mask of this fear. So that's one thing, and let's keep it there for a while. Thinking of anxieties and seemingly, that's a different thing. Seemingly, what is an anxiety? We are worrying about something in in the future. And there is a word for that in Shapiro language as much as there is a word for fear. The for fear, we would say, for the anxiety, we would say. So what is an anxiety? What is this? That's something about the future. We are worrying that something gonna happen or something else will not happen as we ex as we expect that to happen. So we've got a particular image of the future, and we don't like this image of the future. We don't want this to come. Or we've got a particular other image of the future, and we wish this image to materialize. However, we worry that it won't happen like that. So are we dealing with something concrete here? That's a good question to ask ourselves. Again, we are still in the present moment creating an image of what does not exist of an illusion of something. And the way it's gonna be connected to the actual future is completely unknown. We are still leaving them completely uncertain to whether this will materialize or not. So in a sense, we are dealing with a particular subtle agenda of the process how we create this particular future. And we seem to be not knowing what kind of agenda we are keeping. Otherwise, we would not create this anxiety whatsoever. We usually don't have even the slightest three slightest ability to put our consciousness and do this particular stimulus reaction pattern so that we create the ability to relax at that very moment. So here is what ceremonial approach really does. On one hand, we are dealing with this reintegration process of past traumas, of past events. In a sense, it's very similar to the way digestion works. So, like, as much we are digesting food, allowing it to be processed through our body, there is as well this emotional and mental digestion of whatever has happened, which has halted at some particular moment and not reintegrated further on. So the ceremony allows us to to reinstall this digestion process and allow it to be processed fully. And it's more than just the metaphor, by the way, because if you consider how much of what we are processing is connected to our gut flora, to our actual digestion, to the way our body really works with, nutritions, it's pretty much the same, and medicine works in this level more often than you think. The other consideration about ceremonial approach once dealing with fears and anxieties is that it goes into the process of contemplation by putting our consciousness into this pattern of stimulus reaction, sort of cutting through this chain, opening up the moment of reintegrating the stimulus and creating opportunity for us to grow this gap and allow our consciousness to be there, we are creating seeds for the future. So from this perspective, ceremonial work with fear and anxiety usually, if done properly, allows us to create condition for the future integration of whatever comes next because this consciousness integration creates creates a new capacity of our mind to see within this chain of stimulus and reactions. So the first thing is definitely to admit fears and anxieties just to make sure that we are actually dealing for that and, allowing ourselves admit that. This is the condition we are in, and, most obviously, we do not have much control, on it. And admitting the deficiency is quite important because it reinstructs our mind from safeguarding what we already have, safeguarding the the container of our fears and anxieties into the learning process, opening opening it up and making ourselves more vulnerable in the sense, but saying, okay. We are in the safe spot. We can deal with this now. So this the other thing is and then here is what I am referring to once we have discussed fears as well as anxieties here, there is a mask of fear and anxiet
