---
category: shaman_transcript
id: 2023_11_17_recepitory_part_01
document_id: 2023_11_17_recepitory
title: "recepitory"
topic: "recepitory"
date: 2023-11-17
language: en
part: 1/4
duration_minutes: "26.464"
source_path: "/Users/ksoiss/Library/Mobile Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/Documents/Method/podcast/transcripts/2023_11_17_-_recepitory.txt"
---

# recepitory

## Часть 1 из 4

## Транскрипт
Okay. Hello, everyone. And we've got the next topic of our of our series of conversations around ceremonial culture. So this time, we're gonna discuss reciprocity in ceremony and beyond. And that's quite a topic, I'd say. That's quite a topic because it's one of the most popular concepts around around new age and back to the roots movements. And yet, I think it's really hardly understood practically unless you do really practice that. And that's one of these things that cannot be grasped only theoretically. So one needs to get some practical experience, and we're gonna look into that. So why is it actually a topic? First of all first of all, ceremony any ceremony, but, like, specifically, the type of healing ceremonies we are dealing with are definitely communal experience. And once it's approached in a traditional setting, it's definitely something that is done within a container of community life. Not in the sense that it is a group. That's actually not that important, whether it's a group or one on one session or whatever it is. In the context of healing work and guidance work, the communal the notion of communal experience is not about number of people, but rather about their interrelationship. The way they relate to each other is to to the world around, to their their fellow their fellows who are going through the same ceremonial experience. And we observe it, like, pretty much all around. Like, we observe it in in the setting of sweat lodge, for example, when lacotas are praying, and they're praying together. That's basically the the root action to reinstall reinstall the the flow of community life, whatever happens, whatever issues happen within the village or within the tribe, they would do it by restoring the connection through the communal prayer in a very particular manner. And the same happens with Shapivo. We are working with and with all Amazonian civilizations and Andean civilizations. Even if it is a directly directly healing approach, we still come together for reconnection. The the villagers don't come for reconnection because the root of healing is like that. And the root of healing is not by fixing something that is abnormal or replacing or changing or getting rid of something. Although this can be an important component of the healing work, but the real healing journey is about reconnecting, reestablishing the connection, and making the connection proper, and actually making the person mindful about the the connection and about why this connection exists. So we might choose to practice whatever, but within the context of our workshops and at least the approach I propagate and develop it in myself is the community element is the main component of that. And that's only because this is the root of healing. And if you are serious about doing the healing work, that's what we need to take into account. So what exactly is reciprocity from this perspective? And for for a Russian ear, there is a well known, very traditional concept of or and this boils down to an idea of, say, how a particular house is being built or particular is being built in the village that it cannot be accomplished by one family only, but rather there will be the whole village assembly to build a house together for a villager. And this is a reciprocal process because then, in turn, whoever gonna need to have their house built, I, as a villager, gonna as well take my turn and participate and do my part of communal work. And the word miram, by the way, is quite important because etymologically, it stems from from miram. Mir is not only world or peace as we've got it in the Slavic languages, But as well, mere as society so, by the way, the notion of war war and peace and Tolstoy's work was actually a war and the society, Miras, the world and the society at the same time. Again, etymologically coming from the root in in the European languages, which means connecting, tying, tying something that it becomes strong. Surprisingly, in Chippipo, Miraia stems from the same word, dying. So just for reference. Okay. So in Chepibo Hema, the village is of such importance that it is a stand alone primary element of existence alongside with water, earth, and air. So the sense of mutuality is sort of in the very root of the cosmo vision of Shipibo tradition. And in broader Indian cultures, Indian Amazon cultures, we've got the concept of which is super important. Pretty much it's a pillar of the whole civilization, used to be the pillar of the whole civilization, which is both mutualism and reciprocity at all levels, on all levels, meaning, again, communal work and working together, but as well meaning spiritual work and understanding the interconnectedness of everything in the big chain of being in the therefore, whether we see or not mutualism is the key principle here from Indian perspective, which as well allows us to see more. It's quite important because we become more thoughtful about things we cannot see and about beings that are around not only in human form and not only in visible form. And this is actually quite healthy being mindful about others. So as well in ended civilization, the tool set of and communal life would include times when we work for others collectively. So, like, there is one person, and we do something for this person, building a house or moving something of volume. As well, there will be times when the village gonna work for us, and this is time for gratitude how we receive because it's not the receiving in commercial sense of the contemporary society when we receive a good and then we pay or a service and we pay for that with money, and it becomes transactional. Receiving an act of communality is a very different process because in a sense, we are giving way more than money in exchange. And the other two would be communal hours and communal days of work when we altogether do something for the benefit of the common common common legacy, common work. So there is no one person directly benefiting from this, but it's rather everyone is benefiting from this collectively. So there are three important tools, and we all can train them within the ceremonial context. And this is what we can be mindful about by being present for others and receiving and giving and by being mindful of the moments when we need to be there for one particular person. But, again, being being being very mindful on not imposing and projecting what we've got inside, but rather to be of help. So the reason why giving and receiving has such special meaning in ceremonial context is because it allows us to build trust and befriending. So there is no single person that is not a complete alien. That is that is a complete alien. So, like, everyone is alien and everyone is friend at the same time, the differences in process. And, again, this you can see in Andean civilization till now whenever you encounter a person of Quechua or or Aymara descent, and they all, you know, chew copper leaves, and they've got, like, this little sachet with copper leaves all all the time with them. And say, if you like the guy or the guy likes you just, like, sitting nearby and you go in the bus, you sooner or later gonna encounter him or her I've given to you three copper leaves and beautifully arranged with with the offer to chew copper leaves together as the sign of as the sign of connection. And the response would be the gratitude would be metaphorically sending a from the heart to the person, or would be the metaphoric the the response, which is very important from the perspective that a complete stranger gonna approach you by offering a heart to heart connection. Now if you take a contemporary civilization we are living in, it is rare to get the moment of heart to heart con connection even with very close people who we live with, who we work with, not even thinking about strangers that we can achieve this connection with. And the reason why it is an important thing is because it makes us healthy. Having heart to heart connection makes us healthy because then our heart gets to work in a particular manner, and therefore, it starts being the healing engine for our total existence. As well, it creates the capacity of trust. It's not it's not about blind trust to everything like a little child that has who has no idea of danger or threat, but it's rather trust being an active process that we allow ourselves to train and to develop. So it has already some willpower, and it has already some determination. And, again, agreement with one side that, okay. I can be heard. I can be heard. But, ultimately, I cannot be heard because the ultimately, the trust I'm developing is not even with people. It's, like, the the world in general sense. Like, for the Quechua, it would be with Pachamama and with Apus, with the Mother Earth and with the mountains and with all primary elements. So this is where we build the trust with. And by by doing that, it becomes really something of permanence, something of basis and foundation for for a very sustainable joy of being connected to the world. And being connected to the world in this sense is what, again, makes us healthier on so many levels. The other component of reciprocity that I started to touch upon is receiving. And receiving something that we haven't paid for is is a is an art in itself. Because in the sense, it rememb it makes us remember the act of generosity from our mothers, and and this pushes us to think that the universe is our mother in every moment that we can actually encounter that through every connection, through every act of encounter with others. And approaching this the this process of receiving with such perspective makes us more thoughtful about our own existence and the way we actually present ourselves to the world. So it's quite important too. Finally, the mutualism, the process of communality in in the sense of being present for others whenever whenever needed, but not by egoistically imposing one's own projections into others, but rather through the active presence and compassionate intention allows us to create a very special kind of connection with the with the with the world. And in a ceremony, our ceremonial container is the world. Therefore, we can create a very particular type of connection with the whole of the with the with with the whole group, with the whole container of the process, with the ceremony itself. And through that, symbolically, with the life with capital l, with life and health. Why it happens? Because once we are opening ourselves being in a compassionate listening state, we are not really talking. So we are listening. We are actively present. And we know that our thoughts are our tools. Our open heart is our job and, again, our tool to listen actively. And because of this coherence, if everyone does that at the same time, our state starts starts to change. So we start to observe that everyone is actually going through the same process even though everyone has got very individual road. But the process is very similar at the same moment. We start appreciating this coherence. And by appreciating this coherence, the coherence itself becomes an entity of observation and object for observation. Now through this process of observing this coherence and observing this unity, we can start learning to connect the to the unity itself. And because we are all doing this, this becomes something that transcends the conceptual level, it becomes something of active experience. So softening and and making more permeable boundaries of our own existence become becomes possible through this process, and we train actively doing this. Now once we can do it in a very in a very plastic state, in the state of high neuroplasticity that we have in the ceremonial context, This allows us to relearn it as a pattern for our everyday life, then we can observe it in everyday life. Once we can observe it in everyday life, it becomes a component of our habits. So we are building good hab
