---
category: shaman_transcript
id: 2023_10_16_coming_to_a_ceremony_part_02
document_id: 2023_10_16_coming_to_a_ceremony
title: "coming to a ceremony"
topic: "coming to a ceremony"
date: 2023-10-16
language: en
part: 2/4
duration_minutes: "34.758"
source_path: "/Users/ksoiss/Library/Mobile Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/Documents/Method/podcast/transcripts/2023_10_16_-_coming_to_a_ceremony.txt"
---

# coming to a ceremony

## Часть 2 из 4

## Транскрипт
e are used to. And having that particular property, it resembles the cycle of life and death from the birth till the death and the process of rebirth as well. And it not only symbolically shapes it that way, but as well, practically, once we are encountering a particular tough situation, quite often, boils down to the existence that we have no simple rational explanation of, primarily because, say, in our early childhood, our mind wasn't really dealing with the existence in the same way we are dealing with that in our adult life. Okay? So we didn't have much critical thinking. Our perception was different, yet we might have had traumas of particular kind. And most of the stuff psychoanalyst would deal with would be perhaps related to what happened in childhood or what happened what would happen in the least conscious phase of of our life. Now what the medicine specifically, Ayahuasca works with being facilitated properly is going into this least consciously explored parts of our life, of our existence. And this really opens up as a cycle of life and death. So we might experience symbolic rebirth and symbolic dying, and it is very important, for many reasons. Not everyone, not every time, but for some of us, it's gonna be a very eliminating experience, very important, and hardly replicable, with other means. Most of all, it's very safe and, a very safe experience too. Now having this holographic relation to the life and death in general, the property of ceremony is reverence. Now ceremony is something set aside, like, set apart from our regular life. It's a particular predefined process in itself. It's that's why we call it sacred. It's not profane, not mundane. It's sacred. Now in what sense? In the sense of our relation to that. Now if you revere and feel the importance of connection towards the driving force of the ceremony, which is connection to the medicine itself, then we are definitely in the ceremony. So if we seed and incubate and develop this relationship of being connected to the unseen, not to the substance, to the unseen, to the to what is behind this substance, to what is behind this process. At least we are open towards that and we come with respect, then we definitely shape the ceremony for us for us in particular. And, again, this can be a little bit unusual for our contemporary mind, but it is very important in the ceremonial context. Not only we are connected to the medicine, we are as well getting connected to the tradition or traditions that have given birth of this line of work. And, again, traditions are important not because everything in the past is important. It isn't it is not at the same time. But tradition is a particular pattern. And as a pattern of succession of continuation, it has its own knowledge. It has its own meaning in the way that it can teach us how to learn, how to develop this continuation in our own lives. And this allows us as well to build healthy relationships with our own past. And, again, that's quite important in terms of understanding the rules of suffering and understanding how to dev and and develop a more healthy attitude towards our own life. Now once again, the ceremonial container, really calls for being open minded because we are encountering stuff that is unusual and, that cannot be easily explained in our own rational interpretation. To some extent, our own rational interpretation might be exactly the cause for us to have issues. So for a moment, we put it aside. And not that we are forgetting our original mind, but we allow it to be at ease. We allow it to be more flexible and more playful in a sense, more curious. Instead of fixed patterns and dogmatic interpretations, we better see a playful and curious curious approach to what's happening. And, usually, it really relaxes us way more than we would have expected. And while relaxed, we have less tensions. And while relaxed, we have more plasticity. As well, physiologically, neuroplasticity is the result of us being relaxed in some way. Now this is all about ceremony. Now considering the preparation process, first of all, the good thing to prepare oneself for is to encounter one's one's own state, and we we can start with that pretty much early on. And we start with observation of our own state prior to the ceremony. Once we have decided that it is actually something of importance for us, it's very important. We start observing our own state, emotions, thoughts, patterns of our actions, mind states, whatever it is, relationships. Well, intention in that case is what we encounter as an evolutionary flow in a sense. It's not our fixed idea of something, but it's rather what we need to work on in relation to our situation. So we observe our patterns, and we look into that, and we see that this actually becomes a point of contact with our intention. What we want to do with that? What is our will behind our situation, what we need to work on. The important part is that we relate to our situation as as a union of the of the actor and the situation itself. So we are looking into what we are doing, what we are thinking, how we relate to the world around us and inside of of ourselves, not to the circumstances themselves. In other words, usual intention would be to say, okay. I've got issues with my relationships. Okay. So I have issues with my wife or with my husband, and I don't know what to do. And, perhaps I need to work with my husband, like, do something with that. Now a better intention here would be I'm looking to what I experienced in relation to my marital situation, to my husband, to my wife. And in that sense, I am looking into my own patterns of mind, my own history, my own projections, and I am looking for help and support rediscovering a more healthy approach towards all that. So you see, we are sort of taking on responsibility for our own actions. Now while taking the responsibility, we allow ourselves not to repeat the same situation over and over again, not to be the victim. And that's very important to learn how not to be a victim. The other component, which is, what I usually tend to specify more more precisely is importance of preparatory diyata or preparation. It's more than just a food diet. It's although it definitely contains the nutrition, it's more like fasting in the religious context. So we try to live the to to live the plainest life possible. So plain, dull, not spicy. Meaning, plain food, no spices, plain, interface to the outside world, less intensity in relationships or less intensity in news and information flows. The reason for that is for us to learn how to listen. Because the less stimulus we bring into the equation, the more obvious it becomes what our reaction is. We sort of try to take ourselves out of the lunar part, out of the roller coaster for a while and just put us in front of the lake of our consciousness and stay there and observe what's happening. And this is very important because then starting to learn how to listen opens up the whole healing process. It's, to some extent, even more important than the ceremony itself, but it is beginning of the ceremony. Then it starts with this very listening process. So we allow ourselves to start listening, and this is what calls this plain life why we need it. Now this process usually brings up all sorts of anxieties, and that's very important as well to understand that a ceremonial preparation, can bring up anxieties. Most of people who are coming for a journey like that, would have anxieties, and that's okay to be worried about stuff and to be worried and, to have fear. And yet we need to look into that to understand what actually causes this fear. And then in some cases, it's just the self regulation of the patterns we don't want anymore in our life. They bring our fears that, oh, look. I gonna be extinguished, and I don't want to be extinguished as a pattern. And this can create worry. Or, oh, look. You don't know what's gonna happen next. Once you go into this process, you perhaps won't return the same person. Or, oh, look. It is so overwhelming. Perhaps it is dangerous for us. Now it's very important to look into all that and observe the emotional spectrum behind this anxieties and worries. And observe that not only it creates something bad sort of labeled as an anxiety, but as well, it creates something often opposite side of the same magnitude of awe and reverence. Observe this awe and reverence towards the larger force of life is a capital l that is sort of knocking in your door. So it's very important to understand that things gonna float up to the surface during the preparation process. And that's why exactly this is the reason why we draw up the usual compensation tools we normally use for a while, whatever they are, drugs, alcohol, sex, whatever, we do not compensate in the same manner while we are preparing for the ceremony. Why? Because we wish to encounter what we are dealing with in its own pristine form. And then as well, practically, the compensation tools, they hope they and they have their own toll, and then they become something we need to clean. And that's definitely not you want not what you want to spend your time on. Finally, it's very important to understand that it never works up to the expectations. So whatever expectations you might have, you better keep it very flexible and light and easy. It's really hard to expect something we haven't encountered we never encountered in our life. So it's a very different thing. It's just different. And it's easier and perhaps safer not to expect much As well not to expect little, but just to come open minded thinking that, okay. I've got my situation. I have trust towards medicine, trust towards facilitator. I'm gonna try it, and we're gonna see what it gonna help him with. It's very important to see this plant of respect and owe to be able to open up in that manner. And, of course, make your checks. Check the facilitator. Try to understand what he or she is dealing with, what state he or she is in, what tools he or she deploys, and why he or she is doing what they're doing. You know? So make your checks. Your trust is your responsibility, and you better make yourself prepared by going through your own checklist, understanding that it's a safe experience for you. So with that, I conclude. And if you've got any questions, you might be ask you might be have perhaps the best time to ask me right now. Thank you.
