---
category: shaman_transcript
id: 2023_2_24_plant_dietas_eng_part_01
document_id: 2023_2_24_plant_dietas_eng
title: "Plant dietas (Eng)"
topic: "Plant dietas ()"
date: 2023-02-24
language: en
part: 1/6
duration_minutes: "47.474"
source_path: "/Users/ksoiss/Library/Mobile Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/Documents/Method/podcast/transcripts/2023_2_24_-_Plant_dietas_Eng.txt"
---

# Plant dietas (Eng)

## Часть 1 из 6

## Транскрипт
Okay. Hi, everyone. And we've got this talk today about land the others. And, specifically, we're gonna discuss the concept of plan the others in traditions of Amazon and Andes, which is a pretty deep source. So in many respects, the concept of the is the most elaborated over there since it's the principal component of medicinal approach of Amazon people. So in in this regard, as I'm having my traditional education from there. I gonna elaborate mostly on that one, but definitely, we're gonna have some references to other schools of thought and practice just to highlight how widespread this approach is. And for us, the most important component of the concept of plan B, is not the anthropological one, but rather practical one, specifically how we can apply it in our everyday life and what we can learn from that and how we can basically approach it pragmatically. So what we are talking about is plan the editors. Plan the editors are basically the colloquial description of of medicinal practices related to using plans to treat our conditions, be it medicinal conditions, like medical conditions or be it psycho emotional conditions. And plan to get us are from the outside are just aesthetic practices. And then meaning, we're explaining aesthetic practices, we usually mean that there are some limitations in what we should be doing or should not be doing once we approach that. So, however, it's just the external limitation or external conditions for this practice to happen. And the most inner sense, we are talking about building and connection to a particular plan, which is then, in turn, creating some benefits for us. So most of us know about ceremonial process related to Amazonian traditions, and definitely most of us know know the sacred plants ceremonial application. In Andes, the three most important sacred plants, which are now widespread in the Western world as well, are related to either San Pedro, to Vachuma, to the cactus, which is, again, stemming from the Andes, to Coco. Coco is definitely one of the strongest master plans. Pretty much widespread in the most Andean traditions all around the Inca empire, but as well beyond that. And as well Ayahuasca. So Ayahuasca being the brew made of several components, but the principal ones are karate and the pruna. The vinyl khaki and the release of chakruna brewed together, create ayahuasca. And as we know, the particular component of ceremonies is not just ingesting the plants themselves, but rather creating a particular container to make this medicinal work. So the the practitioners, the guys called in Shamanic tradition. So Amazon usually set up a particular ceremonial container by by opening this line of work and creating connection between the client, the guest, and the plant itself. And there is a very deep ontology of how this connection actually creates lasting effects on someone's body and patient's mind. However, the ceremonies themselves are indefinitely the only components of this tradition center. Even more important are the the other soft class in general sense. And then by opening the topic of the, we should consider that traditional approach in most of the cultures involves using hundreds, if not thousands of different plants. While it becomes a little bit of an enigma and mystery of how actually would be possible for a tradition which doesn't even have written recordings of whatever sorts to create a safe environment to use these thousands of medicinal plants to treat all possible diseases. Some of them still being incurable for traditional western pharmacology, some others being definitely related to not just physical health, but rather communal health. And we all obviously understand that, like, if you're taking anxiety or depression or similar disorders, they are not only physical disorders, but they have something to do with our mental condition and the condition of how we set up our life. So whatever affects the quality of life usually has something to do with our recurring patterns of our environment of our society. So most of that is pretty much the object of how plan d at the start deployed. What exactly is a plan d? Well, formally, the process is very straightforward and in ceremonial context, connection with the plant is opened by chanting a particular song, a chant called Ikaros. And and then the practitioner, after having some preparation, would have a period of formal diyata, so called formal diyata, which means an esthetic practice limiting intake of all disturbing foods like sugars and salt and meats of different sorts and dairy products and some others, spices specifically. So, basically, making the life as simple as possible. But as well, there are societal limitations that we limit our contact to the outside world by even not touching someone in the more stricter diatas, keeping ourselves in a sort of retreat. So which implies that most of these are better held in solitary environment by limiting ourselves, like, physically from the outside world. But it can as well be done in in without detaching completely from the default world by creating this solitary environment within ourselves by putting ourselves into a sort of self induced retreat. This or that way, we've got this formal process of the data, which takes sometimes weeks, sometimes months. For more serious practitioners, specifically for those who are intending to work with others, A traditional diet might might be even several years long so that it establishes a more profound connection to the particular medicine. And once the formal period is completed, there is usually another ceremony involved to protect the connection with the plant and to create a safe environment to integrate the learning and the medicinal effect to the everyday life. So from this perspective, plan b is actually never closed, but rather established as a new means of communication between oneself and the outside world and the inside world as well. And one might ask whether it has really what what kind of meaning is behind the data itself? Well, the traditional worldview of Amazon people and not just them, but they've got a pretty unspoiled picture because these cultures were contacted late and still the masters who are preserving this knowledge and sharing this knowledge with us, Western practitioners. The approach here is to understand that we are are not really detached from the nature. Unlike the medicine approach to widespread in the western world, when we usually once we feel that something is off, maybe go to a doctor and you're prescribed a particular drug or medicine, and you're taking it pill by pill and restore our standard way of functioning. The approach of traditional healers is completely different one. One is believed to be part of a larger whole, And this larger whole, this larger entity wouldn't just involve family, for example, or friends or societal circles, but as well the habitat we are relieved, the elements which we are in contact with, being, like, simple elements like water and air and sunshine and trees. But as well in a deeper sense, the contact to the to everything present in nature. Most of what we see in the nature can be seen, and we are used to that. Sort of we can see the plant or we can see a tree or we can see grass or animals or, like, whatever butterflies flying around. But, again, if you allow our intuition to go deeper than that, we might observe that most of the most of the decisions we are making are definitely starting with something else, not with the rational mind and not with our physical eyes or ears, but rather with intuition, with a certain gut feeling. And we know that there are remarkable examples of that, like Isaac Newton coming up with the gravity theory after anecdotally being hit by an apple falling from a tree, which doesn't mean that he wouldn't think rationally about the gravity. Of course, he did, but it took him a little bit of deviation from rational ways of thinking to actually arrive at something that concluded his studies, his research. And we can obviously see this in many examples of our own life that we sometimes need to put our mind to rest to open our senses more broadly and vividly to start learning from subtler signals coming from the outside. And in this respect in this regard, plan the others are doing exactly that. So by creating a level of subtlety and a level of intuitive clarity, we start to learn how to be in contact with the more subtle voices that we usually aren't able to hear. And creating a container of sensory deprivation of a sorts over a prolonged period of time. We create secondary conditions for this situation to develop and open up. For us living in cities, it is definitely a very novel revelation because, again, usually, our civilization does block us from having the more subtle reactions to the outside world. And it's really easy to unlearn this habit. For someone who is living in in the jungle or in the nature, they contact to the outside world of this subtler of this subtler mode is way more easy. And, again, it's pretty easy to understand why the survival would depend upon being able to listen to what's going on around. Say, if you're living in Amazon jungle, then it's really hard to survive without keeping the senses open. Plants do exactly that. So they help us keep our senses open or develop our develop our senses in this particular way, perhaps in the most natural way possible. So they create this this environment of listening again and hearing again. Specific action of particular plants is depending upon their medicinal properties, of course, and there are multiple of multiple different plans which are prescribed by qualified Germanic practitioner to someone who needs healing. Different plans definitely have different properties. But, again, thinking about these properties, we do not necessarily need to limit ourselves to just physical effects of the plant. Although they might be very profound, Say, Bobinsana, which is one of the strongest healing plants known in Amazon and usually deployed in the other context, He has amazing properties in healing, depressive disorders, and creating this very strong connection to the life force within ourselves, which is really hard to achieve otherwise. There are not many medications, so we should do the same, creating a stable foundation for us to draw without any external support further on. Some others plan some other plants would have some other properties like Chiric Sonango is a great healer for joints and connective tissues and bones, and still some other plants would be extremely powerful in treating blood disorders and inflammations like stinging nettle, which is definitely not a traditional Amazon plant, but, again, very very much known for anti inflammatory and blood healing properties. The difference is not in what we ingest here, but in the way we approach this. So for plan the other approach, it is very different from just ingesting plant concoction or builds as we are used in the western society. It is about establishing connection. So this is the main principle of plan the other issue that which actually does the whole difference. We learn how to establish connection to a different being. And within traditions of Amazon and Andes and actually within many other traditions from Asia to Europe back in the days to all Americas to Pacific, pretty much to everywhere. Plants were understood as living beings, as sentient beings. Again, quite contrary to the concept of human intelligence as we learn about that in our text books and in our restaurant society. What type of intelligence is understood that plants have? It's not an intelligence of a separate living being. It's not like a particular shrub has brains. It's a completely different thing. It's rather a particular plant is a gateway of a realm of intelligence of a very unique sorts. And this realm of intelligence has its own properties and in a sense, holographically
